---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0!"
date:   2020-09-04 22:25:35 -0700
categories: blogs :)
---
Hi ! Welcome to my first ever blog.

In this blog, we will talk about installing homebrew, ruby, as well as jekyll. We will also learn to create our blogs and pushing files into github on macOS operating systems.

Here are the steps:

We will be installing homebrew which is a free and open-source software package management system that simplifies the installation of software on macOS operating system.
Go to your terminal or preferred text editor and under terminal type the following commands:

`$ ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"`

This command will install homebrew on your computer. We will need homebrew to install and upgrade ruby.

Next, run:

`$ brew install ruby and $brew upgrade ruby`

The next step is to run the command `"$ gem install jekyll"` unfortunately, my system had some errors that would not let me install jekyll.
To work around the errors, I found a solution via the comment section of a youtube tutorial on how to install jekyll on mac.

Here is the workaround:

First, we will echo the path to our bash profile.

`$ echo 'export PATH="/usr/local/opt/ruby/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bash_profile`
then type:
`$ source ~/.bash_profile`

Now, we are able to install jekyll.

`$ sudo gem install -n /usr/local/bin/ jekyll`

We will need to sudo and install in /usr/local/bin to bypass permission on mac.
Congratulations ! Jekyll is now installed in your system.

Run `$ jekyll -v` to check if jekyll is installed correctly and to check the version.

Now it's time to setup our very first blog!

`$ jekyll new <blog name>` (you can choose what name you want here)

Our blog is not setup, now we need to cd into our blog and serve it.

`$ cd <blog name>`
`$ bundle exec jekyll serve`
  
Finally, we have our first blog running. In order to view our blog, we need to navigate to the localhost: `http://127.0.0.1:4000/` from there we can see our posts.
  
Onto the last part of the blog, publishing the our blog using github pages.
First, create a github account (if you don't have one) and create a new repository. Name it with same name as your local folder.

Next is to initialize our git repository, 

`$ git init`

Then, we need to move all blog files to gh-pages.

`$ git checkout -b gh-pages`

We need to now push all these files to your designated repository

`$ git add .`

Next is to commit all files to said repository

`$ git commit -m "initial commit"`

Now link the local repo with the repository

`$ git remote add origin <git repo link>` ("git repo link" is the link found in your github page)

Lastly, we need to push all these files to our designated repository branch

`$ git push origin gh-pages`

You may sometimes be asked to enter your login credentials to github. Just enter your github username and password if asked.

Now you can keep posting on your page, but to make sure your posts are published, 

run `$ git pull origin gh-pages` followed by `$ git push origin gh-pages` and then `$ jekyll serve` 

Make sure to run these three commands after making changes to your blog files or even creating new files in order to publish them on your site.

Happy Blogging !
